# Weekly Project Retrospective

## Week 2: 25/09/2023 - 01/10/2023

### Team Members:
1. Nishant
2. Sean
3. Stephen
4. Charlotte
5. Fenna
6. Oisin


### What Went Well:
- Nishant: Putting together all the elements from different team members to make the presentation.
- Sean:  In the initial two weeks, we commenced the process of formulating a solid plan. We created a Gantt chart to map out our activities and distributed tasks among team members. Collaborative meetings were scheduled to address different problems team members had where we shared our insights on potential approaches to tackle them.
- Stephen: project plan documentations.
- Charlotte: Editing the documentation, researching various react packages.
- Fenna: I thought we were quite efficient, and got a lot of work done in a small amount of time. Especially with the project plan and presentation. 
- Oisin: team presentation.

### What Could Be Improved:
- Nishant: Interoperability between teams should be improved, everyone should be aware of what all other team mates are doing.
- Sean: Our github work flow
- Stephen: Time management could be improved.
- Charlotte: Communication between team members.
- Fenna: clearer delegation of common tasks such as submission. 
- Oisin: collaboration


### Action Items for Next Week:
- Nishant: Researching and starting to implement different components of the applications, such as database, front end, and learn how to deploy them in AWS, utilising the free tier.
- Sean: Researching how the rapid API works, plan to extract and clean data using API in jupyter notebooks.
- Stephen: NA 
- Charlotte: NA
- Fenna: NA
- Oisin: NA


### Additional Comments:
- Nishant: NA
- Sean: NA
- Stephen: Setting up github was a challenge but the team helped me.
- Charlotte: It was difficult to get up and running but we have made good progress and are starting to mesh together as a team.
- Fenna: I’m proud of us for hitting the ground running the first 2 weeks.
- Oisin: NA


---

## Week 3: 02/10/2023 - 08/10/2023

### Team Members:
1. Nishant
2. Sean
3. Stephen
4. Charlotte
5. Fenna
6. Oisin

### What Went Well:
- Nishant: We had already a lot to do, with the gant chart, and all the activities listed in the project plan. Everyone from the team was busy doing their tasks, and we were exchanging ideas and showing the results to the team.
- Sean: Successfully collected all the data through the Rapid API. Familiarised myself more with the Github collaborative workflow. Did some database schema planning but more is needed.
- Stephen: Completed EDA for the crime records dataset.
- Charlotte: Finished refreshing myself on react and started with page layouts.
- Fenna: Because of the project plan everybody’s tasks were clear and we all just kept working. 
- Oisin: Everyone kinda just did their thing, no real barriers to work.

### What Could Be Improved:
- Nishant: Time management could be improved. As a lot of tasks are awaiting to be completed, there is a gap in research and implementation to be covered.
- Sean: Managing data requests under the 13,000 limit for cost-saving presented challenges. While I successfully stayed within this threshold, I identified areas for efficiency improvement. Specifically, I encountered null values in certain keys and refined my code to prevent loop interruptions. Additionally, I occasionally had to rerun a for loop due to accidental dataset deletions or post-loop realisations about extracting additional information we initially overlooked.
- Stephen: Time spent researching material to complete tasks.
Charlotte: Time management has not been great this week.
- Fenna: Collaboration especially between the software and data science side. I kinda get what’s going on, but I feel like I only hear about issues after the fact. 
- Oisin: NA

### Action Items for Next Week:
- Nishant: Try researching the minimum, and start on implementation.
- Sean: Clean the data and start putting together a schema plan, come up with a solid way of organising the data into different tables in the database. I also will need to work with the Google API to extract neighbourhood information for each property and create a new crime dataset that displays crime information by region. Finally I will research other datasets available that we can bring into the project as well as looking for more crime information available.
Stephen: Gathering the businesses dataset around the properties
- Charlotte: Continuing with front end development.
- Fenna: Keep each other more up to date with current issues and wins, while working ahead for the interim report and presentation. 
- Oisin: just keep ploughing ahead.


### Additional Comments:
- Nishant:
- Sean:
- Stephen: It was a real challenge getting my Google API up and running, even while doing all the steps they recommended on their website.
- Charlotte: I hate Google API - it was not as easy to set up as I expected, thankfully Stephen helped me.
- Fenna: N/A
- Oisin:



---

## Week 4: 09/10/2023 - 15/10/2023

### Team Members:
1. Nishant
2. Sean
3. Stephen
4. Charlotte
5. Fenna
6. Oisin

### What Went Well:
- Nishant: We have overcome some issues with AWS billing, and google api issues.
- Sean: We managed to collect the neighbourhood data using the google API, crucial for listing nearby services. We put significant time into planning our database structure and addressing various data related challenges, this work improved the quality and organisation of our datasets.
- Stephen: We were able to start extracting businesses data using the now working Google Places API
- Charlotte: frontend development starting to take shape quite quickly, the backend is now rigged up.
- Fenna: planning and communication on how to connect the parts was efficient and quick. Frontend development made big strides this week. 
- Oisin: The coding for the frontend layout went pretty quickly. Backend deployment by Fenna was good. 

### What Could Be Improved:
- Nishant: Before deploying anything on AWS, we need to check if it is included in the free tier.
- Sean: Each member of the team could go into a little bit more depth on how the things they’ve been doing work. This would include how their code and algorithms were put together, how their design and thought process was carried out, and how they integrated third party software to function with the project.
- Stephen: Consistent updates for all team members on Github
- Charlotte: Communication between frontend devs. I also don’t have much of an understanding on the database side of things, so better communication with them is needed.
- Fenna: Communication between software and data science groups. 
- Oisin: N/A


### Action Items for Next Week:
- Nishant: Database should be created, communication with the back end is needed to connect all the resources.
- Sean: A little bit more feature engineering needs to be done. And finally the database schema needs to be put together and completed.
- Stephen: Looking through extracted businesses data and planning how to create the database for it
- Charlotte: Start to hook up backend to frontend and start interim report.
- Fenna: Alongside development, start on the interim report. 
- Oisin: Beginning to hook up the backend to the frontend

### Additional Comments:
- Nishant: N/A
- Sean: If we could plan out our show and tells a little bit more as a team that would be beneficial
- Stephen: I think we need to improve how quick we move to our next task after finishing off one
- Charlotte: Splitting the workload between the frontend devs feels a bit uneven at times, better communication would solve these issues.
- Fenna: To me it feels like we’re missing a bit of direction and efficiency at times. Especially considering the interim presentation and report are less than 2 weeks away. 
- Oisin: N/A


---

## Week 5: 16/10/2023 - 22/10/2023

### Team Members:
1. Nishant
2. Sean
3. Stephen
4. Charlotte
5. Fenna
6. Oisin

### What Went Well:
- Nishant:We have completely fulfilled what we needed to build the foundation of the project, after this will be mostly implementation of the features we've been talking about for weeks.
- Sean: We made significant progress on the interim report, filled in most sections with a lot of information that now just needs condensing.
- Stephen: We discussed and implemented the location data format for the businesses dataset
- Charlotte: progressing nicely on the interim report and presentation. Taking feedback on presentations into account.
- Fenna: we all achieved a lot of work this week with development, well done guys!
- Oisin: We managed to get filters working well with form state, and we got Cognito set up too so that we have the beginning of Auth on the frontend. The team did well presenting on Friday morning too.

### What Could Be Improved:
- Nishant: When the interim report is submitted, we will have to work harder, to actually test and try the features.
- Sean: Creating backups of datasets with progress history to prevent the need for re-cleaning initial datasets in case of errors or discrepancies, ultimately this will save time if future errors occur.
- Stephen: documenting and sharing the solutions to common challenges
- Charlotte: communication is still lacking in certain areas but is slowly improving.
- Fenna: Again, communication but we’re taking steps into the right direction. Also, start earlier with presentations especially for next week.
- Oisin: Once the interim report is completed, I think that we will need to put the pedal to the metal on the development side of getting things connected (as expected). Cross collaboration between sub-teams has been good so far, but I expect this will need to be ramped up even more. I also need to have a more detailed plan of necessary tasks so that myself and Charlotte have a clear course of progression + objectives. This should help us divide and conquer the challenges facing the frontend.

### Action Items for Next Week:
- Nishant: Query optimization for database, planing the implementation for the recommendation system, and distributing the algorithms we will be testing before a final implementation.
- Sean: Creating sql tables, processing crime data and adding it into schema, may need to use Haversine formula as there is neighbourhood mismatching name errors between the google maps and crime dataset neighbourhoods, create user profiles table in schema and a way of retrieving and storing like data from users.
- Stephen: Working with Sean to add the datasets to the schema
- Charlotte: Start connecting the frontend and backend, finish up the interim report and presentation
- Fenna: interim report and presentation!
- Oisin: interim  report + presentation, dive into the development fully

### Additional Comments:
- Nishant: N/A
- Sean: We’ve done a lot of work this week guys, especially collaboratively, well done!
- Stephen: N/A
- Charlotte: N/A
- Fenna: N/A
- Oisin: N/A

---

## Week 6: 23/10/2023 - 29/10/2023

### What Went Well:
- Nishant: We presented live demo and project details
- Sean: Worked really well as a team to pull the report documentation together, made significant progress on the planning of the the scoring and recommendation systems
- Stephen: Working together to put together our interim report
- Charlotte: So much presentation and report work but we really pulled together.
- Fenna: We did a lot of work for the report and presentation. Excellent teamwork guys!
- Oisin: Interim Report came together well

### What Could Be Improved:
- Nishant: Research about how recommendation systems can work.
- Sean: Need to do further research on how to integrate the planned recommendation system into the cloud
- Stephen: Documentation on our plans and next actions
- Charlotte: Recommendation system/ scoring system communication - we are improving though.
- Fenna: Communication. 
- Oisin: Describe how to test on PR’s so that reviewers can verify they pass.


### Action Items for Next Week:
- Nishant: Have clear plan for the implementation of the recommendation and scoring engine
- Sean: Research how to implement the scoring and recommendation system into the project, set up database so backend can query from it
- Stephen: Loading up business dataset, tableau visualization and working on recommendation system evaluation design
- Charlotte: Connect everything, start layout for user testing and find test subjects.
- Fenna: Fully connect all parts and continue on.
- Oisin: Begin to connect everything

### Additional Comments:
- Nishant: N/A
- Sean: Last week was quite a tough one, so I just want to give a pat on the back to everyone for making it through!
- Stephen: N/A
- Charlotte: N/A 
- Fenna: N/A
- Oisin: N/A